# Let society do the heavy lifting

It’s a lesson that keeps presenting itself to me in many areas of life. In dating. Females select male partners by letting men come to her. They make the men fight amongst themselves. Only the strongest, smartest and most capable will win. The top of the male hierarchy will dictate the most suitable mate so the female does not have to comb through and evaluate the large selection of males.

In economics, some very smart capitalist people tend to say the economy sort itself out and long term investing is a good strategy. "Among the various propositions offered to you, if you invested in a very low-cost index fund -- where you don't put the money in at one time, but average in over 10 years -- you'll do better than 90% of people who start investing at the same time." - Warren Buffet

In Chinese Taoist philosophy, there is a concept of Wu Wei. It means to do nothing. The way never acts, yet nothing is ever left undone. Tao de Jing. A favourite story of mine is The Chinese Farmer told by Alan Watts. A series of both fortunate and unfortunate events happen to the farmer. But each time the farmer responds with indifference his answer every time is maybe. As a result, he was not affected because he did not give a definite answer. I often find it difficult to delegate responsibilities to others. I tell myself that I need to trust the universe. I'm often amazed at how organisations can get anything done. Working as an internal employee, I see mistakes, broken promises, unprofessional, unethical behaviour and unreliable tools. Yet at the end of the day, the CEO of the company is highly successful. He doesn’t seem to care about the minutiae, he just delegates it to everyone else and trusts them to do the right thing. A senior colleague of mine once said to me "don't sweat the small stuff". It’s true and also applicable to delegation.

In software. There are many concepts for both developers and users. For example libraries, open-source, design patterns and off the shelf software. A highly regarded mentor of mine once said, all the resources you need are already available, you just have to use it.
